2020.05.22
12:35 am
“Sometimes, I’m not sure if I miss being in college.”
“Oh.” I looked up. “What do you mean?”
“Well, I mean there are parts I definitely don’t miss, and that are much better now. Like having money, not having exams.”
I kept scrolling. “So what do you miss?”
“Like, I miss being able to walk over to a friend’s place at like midnight and just talking about something on my mind. Even just the being able to walk over part. Now everyone just lives too far apart even if it’s the same city. And now we all have to make plans like a week in advance. We show up, eat a dinner, and then everyone just goes their separate ways back home.”
He paused. I stopped scrolling, too.
“So yeah, I guess I just kinda miss that kind of social life.”
I’d been slowly sliding lower into the sofa, and I pushed myself back up to a position with a bit more resemblance to sitting upright.
“That’s true, that definitely doesn’t really happen anymore.”
“Yeah. Which is strange, when I think about it. We’re all basically the same people, it’s just, what, like a year or two later?”
“But I guess people have work now. Maybe that’s the big difference. So now suddenly everyone is following some rigid schedule.”
“No yeah, that’s probably why. And most of those college friends aren’t here anyway. All these newer friends here, it’s like we never set that precedent before — all we’ve known is scheduling dinners and coordinating in group chats. Those are just, like, the only multiple choice options we’ve got.”
I could understand that. It’s like all that spontaneity was lost, gone in favor of schedules and calendars. And now with all these slotted calendars, maybe there’s no room for spontaneity anymore. I remember a time in high school when we’d all be walking together after 8th period, gathering in someone’s basement — when figuring out what to do together was not thought about until we were all there already.
“Maybe we should though,” I said.
“Should what?”
“Just waltz over to each other’s places all the time. Just go and sit around and hang out.”
He laughed. “I thought about that too. And honestly, I got really excited at first. I mean, I miss seeing them all, and like immediately I thought of a couple people I’d for sure hit up. But then I remember we can’t even do that now if we wanted to.”
“Oh yeah, I guess not, huh. I don’t know, maybe some people would be down. If it’s not high risk or anything.” I laughed. “Kind of unlucky that you’re only thinking about it now.”
He shrugged. “It’s okay. I’m still glad I thought about it at all. I don’t think I would’ve thought about any of this if things were just how they were normally.”
“What made you realize then?”
“I mean, just things feeling more lonely these days, I think.”
“Mm yeah. I’m sure that’s true for everyone.”
“So I think it just made me think of the friends in college I’d talk to.”
I looked over at him.
“That’s what got you thinking about missing college?”
“Yeah, probably.”
“Do you still talk to these friends?”
“Mm, no, not really.” He paused. “I guess it’s not like anything happened, but we’re just all in difference places now.”
I asked him how he felt about that. He considered that for a bit.
“I’m not sure, I guess it’s kinda sad?”
“Do you think it’s more that you just miss these people rather than miss college?”
“Oh. Yeah, hundred percent. Not just the people, but like, having that kind of relationship with them.”
I nodded. I don’t think he would say it, but I don’t think he was unsure about missing college. I think he knew.
Somewhere in there were regrets, perhaps about the friendships that had grown apart, or maybe a responsibility for it. It wasn’t that there was any uncertainty about those feelings, but rather that nothing could be changed about that.
I’ve always liked trains and the idea of traveling on trains. There’s space, and with it comfort, and there’s vivid scenery with a real foreground. But maybe what’s most comforting about the train is its agency: until I’m there, I’m not there — but I know I’ll get there. Or rather, I know that place will be upon me.
Now I feel like I’m on a small boat in the boring horizon of an ocean.